---
layout: post
title: Break Pt. 2 (RC 15-17 July)
tags: [Programming, Recurse Center]
---
One of the potential benefits I see in forcing myself to blog (somewhat) daily while at Recurse is the ease with which I can identify the ways I’m prone to deceive myself about my work habits. 

For example, in my last post here, I said “[I planned] to spend this weekend working a lot.” Did I do that? Not really at all. I also thought and said similar things about my first weekend here. And—surprise!—I also spent that weekend doing nothing programming-related (and feeling bad about it). So an obvious emerging pattern is that I probably like to work on weekdays and relax and prepare during the weekends—far from a revolutionary productivity cycle.

But what’s interesting about the experimental design of the Recurse Center is that no one is in any way forcing me to adhere to that schedule. And, when I pay attention to that chattering, critical voice in my head—which most people seem to have, in my experience—that wants to constantly tell me the type of person that I think I am or want to be, it’s usually saying that I don’t need rest days, and am some kind of unrealistically Herculean workhorse who breaks through personal milestones like papier-mâché and doesn’t adhere to societal structures, like workweeks, that hem in my boundless creativity. Or something similarly delusional.

But time and experience and the helpful thought log of these posts are all already making it clear that I have rhythms I naturally fall into that keep me moving and happy, and I should treat those patterns and myself with respect. 

In short: this weekend I spent plenty of time outside, went to an algorave, did things with friends, and, excepting a good sprint on Friday spent working on the markdown interpreter, didn’t produce much code. And while in future Recurse weeks I may seize my weekends more productively, I’m learning not to give myself too hard of a time when I do exactly the opposite of that.

Stray thoughts:

- All of the above said, I’m planning to experiment with some alternative work cycles while I’m at RC and have the freedom to do so. Adrien hosted a “productivity day” today based around the [personal hackathon](http://www.personalhackathon.com) model, and while I didn’t go this time, I’m curious what focused cycles of compressed work could do for my projects.
- Other non-programming things from the weekend: American Museum of Natural History, Chinatown exploration, and the most essential New York experience of them all—the Ikea ferry.